Transcriber: TED Translators Admin
Reviewer: Rhonda Jacobs
Where does all the carbon
we release go?
Carbon works in a natural cycle,
present in all living things:
in the soil, in the oceans,
in the atmosphere
and in rocks deep underground.
When plants and other living things die,
much of their stored carbon
makes its way back to the atmosphere
until new plants grow
and reabsorb the carbon.
But over millions of years,
some of the carbon stored in ancient trees
and sea life becomes rock
and some becomes fossil fuels:
coal, oil and natural gas.
Natural events like volcanic eruptions
release some of the carbon
trapped in rock.
And human activities,
like burning fossil fuels,
also release some
of that prehistoric carbon.
Today, humans release
around 60 times more carbon
than all the volcanoes
on the planet each year.
That overloads Earth's carbon cycle
and builds up in the atmosphere
and oceans.
Planting more trees will help,
but trees alone can't get us to net zero.
There's only one sure way
to stop global warming.
We must stop releasing
this excess carbon into our air.
[Countdown
Take action on climate change
at Countdown.ted.com]